[Documentation][Cookbook] How to integrate a Payment Gateway as a Plugin? (#10589)
Sylius/Sylius: docs/cookbook/payments/custom-payment-gateway.rst

How to integrate a Payment Gateway as a Plugin?
===============================================

> Among all possible customization, new gateway provider is one of the most common choices. Level of complexity of payment processing,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Among all possible customizations, new gateway provider is one of the most common choices. 
Payment processing complexity,
```

> regional limits, and amount of potential payment providers makes it hard to support all possible cases. A custom payment gateway is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
regional limits and the amount of potential payment providers makes it hard for Sylius core to keep up with all possible cases. 
A custom payment gateway is
```

sometimes the only choice.

In the following example, a new gateway will be configured, which will send payment details to external API.

> 1. Set up a new plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set up a new plugin using the plugin skeleton
```

> 

Reviewer: + link to Plugin development guide in a tip box here?

.. code-block:: bash

    $ composer create-project sylius/plugin-skeleton ProjectName

> 1. The first step in newly created repository would be to create a new Gateway Factory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The first step in the newly created repository would be to create a new Gateway Factory.
```

> In src/Payum/SyliusPaymentGatewayFactory.php put this content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prepare a gateway factory class in ``src/Payum/SyliusPaymentGatewayFactory.php``:
```

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace Acme\SyliusExamplePlugin\Payum;

    use Payum\Core\Bridge\Spl\ArrayObject;
    use Payum\Core\GatewayFactory;

    final class SyliusPaymentGatewayFactory extends GatewayFactory
    {
        protected function populateConfig(ArrayObject $config): void
        {
            $config->defaults([
                'payum.factory_name' => 'sylius_payment',
                'payum.factory_title' => 'Sylius Payment',
            ]);

            $config['payum.api'] = function (ArrayObject $config) {
                return $config['api_key'] ?? null;
            };
        }
    }

> And at the end of `config/services.yaml` put this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And at the end of `config/services.yaml` add such a configuration for your gateway:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

        app.sylius_payment:
            class: Payum\Core\Bridge\Symfony\Builder\GatewayFactoryBuilder
            arguments:
                - 'Acme\SyliusExamplePlugin\Payum\SyliusPaymentGatewayFactory'
            tags:
                -
                    name: payum.gateway_factory_builder
                    factory: sylius_payment

> 2. Next, one should create a configuration form, where authorization (or some additional information, like sandbox mode) can be specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Next, one should create a configuration form, where authorization (or some additional information, like sandbox mode) can be specified.
```

> In src/Form/Type/SyliusGatewayConfigurationType.php put this content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the configuration type in ``src/Form/Type/SyliusGatewayConfigurationType.php``:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace Acme\SyliusExamplePlugin\Form\Type;

    use Symfony\Component\Form\AbstractType;
    use Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\TextType;
    use Symfony\Component\Form\FormBuilderInterface;

    final class SyliusGatewayConfigurationType extends AbstractType
    {
        /**
         * {@inheritdoc}

>          */

Reviewer 2: Not needed docblock

        public function buildForm(FormBuilderInterface $builder, array $options): void
        {
            $builder

>                 ->add('api_key', TextType::class)

Reviewer 2: Could be in one line

            ;
        }
    }

> And at the end of `config/services.yaml` put this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And add its configuration to `config/services.yaml`:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

        Acme\SyliusExamplePlugin\Form\Type\SyliusGatewayConfigurationType:
            tags:
                -
                    name: form.type
                -
                    name: sylius.gateway_configuration_type
                    label: Sylius Payment
                    type: sylius_payment

> 3. To introduce support for new configuration fields, we need to create a value object which will be passed to action, so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. To introduce support for new configuration fields, we need to create a value object which will be passed to action, so
```

> we can use these values.

Reviewer: these values?? which ones?

> In src/Payum/SyliusApi.php

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In src/Payum/SyliusApi.php
```
You should describe what it is.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace Acme\SyliusExamplePlugin\Payum;

    final class SyliusApi
    {
        /**
         * @var string

>          */

Reviewer 2: `/** @var string */`

        private $apiKey;

        public function __construct(string $apiKey)
        {
            $this->apiKey = $apiKey;
        }

        public function getApiKey(): string
        {
            return $this->apiKey;
        }
    }

> In src/Payum/SyliusPaymentGatewayFactory.php

Reviewer: Describe here what you're doing

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace Acme\SyliusExamplePlugin\Payum;

    use Acme\SyliusExamplePlugin\Payum\Action\StatusAction;
    use Payum\Core\Bridge\Spl\ArrayObject;
    use Payum\Core\GatewayFactory;

    final class SyliusPaymentGatewayFactory extends GatewayFactory
    {
        protected function populateConfig(ArrayObject $config): void
        {
            $config->defaults([
                'payum.factory_name' => 'sylius_payment',
                'payum.factory_title' => 'Sylius Payment',
                'payum.action.status' => new StatusAction(),
            ]);

            $config['payum.api'] = function (ArrayObject $config) {
                return new SyliusApi($config['api_key']);
            };
        }
    }

> From now on, new Payment Gateway should be available in admin panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From now on, your new Payment Gateway should be available in the admin panel.
```

// New gateway configuration type

> 4. Configure new payment method in the admin panel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Configure new payment method in the admin panel
```

// New payment method

> 5. Configure required actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Configure required actions
```

> We will create two actions: CaptureAction and StatusAction. The first one will be responsible for sending to the external system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will create two actions: CaptureAction and StatusAction. The first one will be responsible for sending data to an external system:
```

> payment amount, currency, and api key configured in previously created form, while the second one will translate response HTTP codes to the proper state of payment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
payment amount, currency and an API key configured in the previously created form, while the second one will translate response HTTP codes to a proper state of payment.
```

> 5.1. Create StatusAction and add it to SyliusPaymentGatewayFactory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6.1. Create StatusAction and add it to the SyliusPaymentGatewayFactory
```

> src/Payum/SyliusPaymentGatewayFactory.php

Reviewer: this should be a part of the code block as a comment.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace Acme\SyliusExamplePlugin\Payum;

>     use Acme\SyliusExamplePlugin\Payum\Action\CaptureAction;

Reviewer 2: Not used in this class

    use Sylius\Component\Core\Model\PaymentInterface as SyliusPaymentInterface;

    final class StatusAction implements ActionInterface
    {
        public function execute($request): void
        {
            RequestNotSupportedException::assertSupports($this, $request);

            /** @var SyliusPaymentInterface $payment */
            $payment = $request->getFirstModel();

            $details = $payment->getDetails();

            if (200 === $details['status']) {
                $request->markCaptured();

                return;
            }

            if (400 === $details['status']) {
                $request->markFailed();

                return;
            }
        }

        public function supports($request): bool
        {
            return
                $request instanceof GetStatusInterface &&
                $request->getFirstModel() instanceof SyliusPaymentInterface
            ;
        }
    }

StatusAction will update the state of payment based on details provided by CaptureAction. Based on the value of the status code of the HTTP request, the payment status will be adjusted as follows:
HTTP 400 (Bad request) - payment has failed

> HTTP 200 (OK) - payment succeed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP 200 (OK) - payment succeeded
```
?

> 5.2. Create CaptureAction as a service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6.2. Create a service for handling the CaptureAction
```

                        'api_key' => $this->api->getApiKey(),
                    ]),
                ]);
            } catch (RequestException $exception) {
                $response = $exception->getResponse();
            } finally {
                $payment->setDetails(['status' => $response->getStatusCode()]);
            }
        }

        public function supports($request): bool
        {
            return
                $request instanceof Capture &&
                $request->getModel() instanceof SyliusPaymentInterface
            ;
        }

        public function setApi($api): void
        {
            if (!$api instanceof SyliusApi) {
                throw new UnsupportedApiException('Not supported. Expected an instance of ' . SyliusApi::class);
            }

            $this->api = $api;
        }
    }

*A external request interceptor was used for training purposes. If `https://sylius-payment.free.beeceptor.com` link is not working, create your own on: `https://beeceptor.com/` or `https://ptsv2.com/`*

config/services.yaml

.. code-block:: yaml

        Acme\SyliusExamplePlugin\Payum\Action\CaptureAction:
            public: true

>             arguments: ['@sylius.http_client']

Reviewer 2: You are not consistent with defining arguments

            tags:
                -
                    name: payum.action
                    factory: sylius_payment
                    alias: payum.action.capture

> You are ready to make your first checkout with newly created gateway!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your shop is ready to handle the first checkout with your newly created gateway!
```

*On both previously mentioned interceptors, you may configure a status code of the response. Check the behavior of Sylius for code 400 as well!*

For more information, please go to:
`https://github.com/Payum/Payum/blob/master/docs/index.md`

> `https://docs.sylius.com/en/1.5/book/orders/payments.html`

Reviewer: should be a :doc: link
